1. Run process-run.pywith the following flags: -l 5:100,5:100.
What should the CPU utilization be (e.g., the percent of time the
CPU is in use?) Why do you know this? Use the -c and -p flags to
see if you were right.

100%

2. Now run with these flags: ./process-run.py -l 4:100,1:0.
These flags specify one process with 4 instructions (all to use the
CPU), and one that simply issues an I/O and waits for it to be done.
How long does it take to complete both processes? Use -c and -p
to find out if you were right.

Every IO issued will create 7 clock ticks, with 5 as IO ticks, 2 as CPU ticks
for IO (open and close), therefore CPU utilization time is 6 / (4 + 7) = 54.55%.

3. Switch the order of the processes: -l 1:0,4:100. What happens
now? Does switching the order matter? Why? (As always, use -c
and -p to see if you were right)

Once the IO is issued, it transitions into BLOCKED state, and the control is
transferred to the other process, where CPU runs are executed. The order matters
in this case, because when the IO is waiting, cpu tranfers the execution power
to another READY process. Therefore, the total time is 7, and CPU busy time is
6, thus creates a higher utilization rate at 85.71%.

4. We’ll now explore some of the other flags. One important flag is
-S, which determines how the system reacts when a process issues
an I/O. With the flag set to SWITCH ON END, the system
will NOT switch to another process while one is doing I/O, instead
waiting until the process is completely finished. What happens
when you run the following two processes (-l 1:0,4:100
-c -S SWITCH ON END), one doing I/O and the other doing CPU
work?

It gives what we had in problem 2, becuase this time the CPU does not smartly
walk away from the blocked IO.

5. Now, run the same processes, but with the switching behavior set
to switch to another process whenever one is WAITING for I/O (-l
1:0,4:100 -c -S SWITCH ON IO).What happens now? Use -c
and -p to confirm that you are right.

Same as problem 3.

6. One other important behavior is what to do when an I/O completes.
With -I IO RUN LATER, when an I/O completes, the process
that issued it is not necessarily run right away; rather,whatever
was running at the time keeps running. What happens when you
run this combination of processes? (Run ./process-run.py -l
3:0,5:100,5:100,5:100 -S SWITCH ON IO -I IO RUN LATER
-c -p) Are system resources being effectively utilized?

After the first IO instruction issued, the CPU will go ahead and run other
non-blocking processes. After all non-blocking processes are run (which is what
the command specifies), the IO-blocking process will take control back and get
blocked until everything is done. System resources are not being effectively
utilized here.

7. Now run the same processes, but with -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE set,
which immediately runs the process that issued the I/O. How does
this behavior differ? Why might running a process that just completed
an I/O again be a good idea?

It runs next IO-blocking instruction immediately once the last IO-blocking one
is done. Higher utilization rate. Because it may let as much as IO-blocking
instructions run in the background when the CPU is actively processing other
non-blocking tasks.

8. Now runwith some randomly generated processes: -s 1 -l 3:50,3:50
or -s 2 -l 3:50,3:50 or -s 3 -l 3:50,3:50. See if you can
predict how the trace will turn out. What happens when you use
the flag -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE vs. -I IO RUN LATER?What happens
when you use -S SWITCH ON IO vs. -S SWITCH ON END?

Seems that IO_RUN_IMMEDIATE combining with SWITCH_ON_IO works the best for
higher utilization rate.
